README.md, before:

# pangea-ai-chat

An example webapp demonstrating Pangea's [AI Guard][] and [Prompt Guard][]
services.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20 or v22.
- yarn v4.5.1 (or greater).
- A [Pangea account][Pangea signup] with AI Guard, Prompt Guard, AuthN, and
  Secure Audit Log enabled.
- A Google Drive folder containing spreadsheets.

  - Note down the ID of the folder for later (see [the LangChain docs][retrieve-the-google-docs]
    for a guide on how to get the ID from the URL).
  - Each spreadsheet should be named after a user and have two rows. For example:

    Alice PTO

    | Employee | Hours |
    | -------- | ----- |
    | Alice    | 25    |

    Bob PTO

    | Employee | Hours |
    | -------- | ----- |
    | Bob      | 100   |

- Two Google Identities (e.g. Alice and Bob)
  - One user (e.g. Alice) will act as the admin and own the folder and have full
    access to all spreadsheets within
  - The other user (e.g. Bob) will act as an employee with read access to their
    single spreadsheet
- A Google Cloud project with the [Google Drive API][] and [Google Sheets API][] enabled.
- A Google service account:
  1. In your Google Cloud project, go to IAM & Admin > Service Accounts (using
     the navigation menu in the top left) and create a new service account.
  2. On the service accounts page, select your new service account, click KEYS,
     and add a new key. Save the key as `credentials.json` somewhere.
  3. Share the Google Drive folder with the service account’s email, granting it
     Editor access so it can query file permissions as needed.

## Setup

### Pangea AuthN

After activating AuthN:

1. Under AuthN > General> Signup Settings, enable "Allow Signups". This way
   users won't need to be manually added.
2. For development only: under AuthN > General > Redirect (Callback) Settings,
   add `http://localhost:3000` as a redirect.
3. Under AuthN > General > Social (OAuth), enable Google, GitHub, and LinkedIn.
4. Under AuthN > Overview, note the "Client Token" and "Hosted Login" values for
   later.

### Repository

```
git clone https://github.com/pangeacyber/pangea-ai-chat.git
cd pangea-ai-chat
yarn install
cp .env.template .env.local
```

There are several values that need to be filled out in `.env.local`:

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_PANGEA_CLIENT_TOKEN`: This should be the AuthN "Client Token"
  that was noted earlier.
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTHN_UI_URL`: This should be the AuthN "Hosted Login" that was
  noted earlier.
- `PANGEA_SERVICE_TOKEN`: Pangea API token with access to AI Guard and Prompt
  Guard.
- `PANGEA_AUDIT_CONFIG_ID`: Pangea Secure Audit Log configuration ID.
- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: AWS access key.
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`: Secret key associated with the AWS access key
- `GOOGLE_DRIVE_CREDENTIALS`: Google service account credentials as a compacted
  JSON object. The value of this variable should be the contents of the
  `credentials.json` from earlier with its whitespace removed until it fits in a
  single line.
- `GOOGLE_DRIVE_FOLDER_ID`: Google Drive folder ID.

## Usage

A development version of the app can be started with:

```
yarn dev
```

Then navigate to <http://localhost:3000>.

[AI Guard]: https://pangea.cloud/docs/ai-guard/
[Prompt Guard]: https://pangea.cloud/docs/prompt-guard/
[Pangea signup]: https://pangea.cloud/signup
[Google Drive API]: https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=drive.googleapis.com
[Google Sheets API]: https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=sheets.googleapis.com
[retrieve-the-google-docs]: https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/retrievers/google_drive/#retrieve-the-google-docs

Commit message:

Add AuthZ service support
An additional security control for AuthZ has been added. While disabled
(the default), all Google Drive documents are present in the context.
When enabled, only documents that the user has access to are present.

Propagating Google Drive permissions to AuthZ is done via a script. A
GitHub workflow has also been added to make it possible to update the
tuples without needing to checkout the code.

README.md, after:

# pangea-ai-chat

An example webapp demonstrating Pangea's [AI Guard][] and [Prompt Guard][]
services.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20 or v22.
- yarn v4.5.1 (or greater).
- A [Pangea account][Pangea signup] with AI Guard, Prompt Guard, AuthN, AuthZ,
  and Secure Audit Log enabled.
- A Google Drive folder containing spreadsheets.

  - Note down the ID of the folder for later (see [the LangChain docs][retrieve-the-google-docs]
    for a guide on how to get the ID from the URL).
  - Each spreadsheet should be named after a user and have two rows. For example:

    Alice PTO

    | Employee | Hours |
    | -------- | ----- |
    | Alice    | 25    |

    Bob PTO

    | Employee | Hours |
    | -------- | ----- |
    | Bob      | 100   |

- Two Google Identities (e.g. Alice and Bob)
  - One user (e.g. Alice) will act as the admin and own the folder and have full
    access to all spreadsheets within
  - The other user (e.g. Bob) will act as an employee with read access to their
    single spreadsheet
- A Google Cloud project with the [Google Drive API][] and [Google Sheets API][] enabled.
- A Google service account:
  1. In your Google Cloud project, go to IAM & Admin > Service Accounts (using
     the navigation menu in the top left) and create a new service account.
  2. On the service accounts page, select your new service account, click KEYS,
     and add a new key. Save the key as `credentials.json` somewhere.
  3. Share the Google Drive folder with the service account’s email, granting it
     Editor access so it can query file permissions as needed.

## Setup

### Pangea AuthN

After activating AuthN:

1. Under AuthN > General> Signup Settings, enable "Allow Signups". This way
   users won't need to be manually added.
2. For development only: under AuthN > General > Redirect (Callback) Settings,
   add `http://localhost:3000` as a redirect.
3. Under AuthN > General > Social (OAuth), enable Google, GitHub, and LinkedIn.
4. Under AuthN > Overview, note the "Client Token" and "Hosted Login" values for
   later.

### Pangea AuthZ

This app assumes that the authorization schema is set to the built-in
[File Drive][reset-authorization-schema] schema.

Fetching the Google Drive file permissions and propagating them to AuthZ is done
via the `yarn create-authz-tuples` script. This is also available as a GitHub
workflow.

### Repository

```
git clone https://github.com/pangeacyber/pangea-ai-chat.git
cd pangea-ai-chat
yarn install
cp .env.template .env.local
```

There are several values that need to be filled out in `.env.local`:

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_PANGEA_CLIENT_TOKEN`: This should be the AuthN "Client Token"
  that was noted earlier.
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTHN_UI_URL`: This should be the AuthN "Hosted Login" that was
  noted earlier.
- `PANGEA_SERVICE_TOKEN`: Pangea API token with access to AI Guard and Prompt
  Guard.
- `PANGEA_AUDIT_CONFIG_ID`: Pangea Secure Audit Log configuration ID.
- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: AWS access key.
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`: Secret key associated with the AWS access key
- `GOOGLE_DRIVE_CREDENTIALS`: Google service account credentials as a compacted
  JSON object. The value of this variable should be the contents of the
  `credentials.json` from earlier with its whitespace removed until it fits in a
  single line.
- `GOOGLE_DRIVE_FOLDER_ID`: Google Drive folder ID.

## Usage

A development version of the app can be started with:

```
yarn dev
```

Then navigate to <http://localhost:3000>.

[AI Guard]: https://pangea.cloud/docs/ai-guard/
[Prompt Guard]: https://pangea.cloud/docs/prompt-guard/
[Pangea signup]: https://pangea.cloud/signup
[reset-authorization-schema]: https://pangea.cloud/docs/authz/general#reset-authorization-schema
[Google Drive API]: https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=drive.googleapis.com
[Google Sheets API]: https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=sheets.googleapis.com
[retrieve-the-google-docs]: https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/retrievers/google_drive/#retrieve-the-google-docs
